update stat-software parts of site (#229)
ropensci/roweb3: content/stat-software-review/_index.md

description = "rOpenSci's open peer-review system of R statistical packages"
+++

> We at rOpenSci have recently expanded our peer review system beyond its former scope to enable us to review packages that implement statistical algorithms. This has required an expansion of our editor and reviewer community to bring in new expertise, and new sets of standards and approaches to deal with the particular challenges of statistical methods. We are currently able to review packages in the following 7 categories of statistical software:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We at rOpenSci have expanded our peer review system beyond its former scope to enable us to review packages that implement statistical algorithms. This has required an expansion of our editor and reviewer community to bring in new expertise, and new sets of standards and approaches to deal with the particular challenges of statistical methods. We are currently able to review packages in the following 7 categories of statistical software:
```

Author: I wanted the "recently" in there temporarily, while the comments that follow about pre-sub enquiries still apply. I think  it might be good leave it until we've been through the first one or two packages?

Reviewer: Ok but in that case could you please open an issue in this repo so we remember to update it?

Reviewer: (or just tell me it's in your other tracker, no problem!)

Author: Thanks, i've put it here: https://github.com/ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review/issues/9

> We at rOpenSci have recently expanded our peer review system beyond its former scope to enable us to review packages that implement statistical algorithms. This has required an expansion of our editor and reviewer community to bring in new expertise, and new sets of standards and approaches to deal with the particular challenges of statistical methods. We are currently able to review packages in the following 7 categories of statistical software:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have expanded our peer review system include packages that implement statistical algorithms.  To accommodate these packages, we have developed a new set of standards specific to statistical packages, expanded our editorial board to bring in additional expertise, and new tools to support authors and reviewers test and examine code. We are currently accepting submission of packages in the following 7 categories of statistical software:
```

Reviewer 2: I prefer to use less tentative language here.

1. Bayesian and Monte Carlo Routines
2. Dimensionality Reduction, Clustering, and Unsupervised Learning
3. Machine Learning
4. Regression and Supervised Learning
5. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and Summary Statistics
6. Spatial Analyses
7. Time Series Analyses

We aim to expand the system to include the following four additional categories:

8. Probability Distributions
9. Wrapper Packages
10. Networks
11. Workflow Support

> Full details of procedures for preparing and submitting statistical packages for peer review are containing in our ["*Statistical Software Peer Review*" book](https://stats-devguide.ropensci.org/index.html). The system is currently in an initial trial phase, during which we ask that packages authors wishing to submit first do via opening a pre-submission enquiry issue at [ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review](https://github.com/ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review). Anyone wishing to submit is also welcome to directly contact the statistical software team (Mark Padgham, mark<at>ropensci.org, and Noam Ross, ross<at>ecohealthalliance.org).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Full details of procedures for preparing and submitting statistical packages for peer review are containing in our ["*Statistical Software Peer Review*" book](https://stats-devguide.ropensci.org/index.html). The system is currently in its trial phase. We ask that authors considering submission of a statistical package first via open a [pre-submission inquiry](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=B-submit-a-presubmission-inquiry.md).  Those with questions and inquiries are welcome to contact the statistical software team (Mark Padgham, mark<at>ropensci.org, and Noam Ross, ross<at>ecohealthalliance.org).
```

Reviewer 2: Note that https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/pull/451 puts all pre-submission inquiries into one issue

> Full details of procedures for preparing and submitting statistical packages for peer review are containing in our ["*Statistical Software Peer Review*" book](https://ropenscilabs.github.io/statistical-software-review-book/index.html). The system is currently in an initial trial phase, during which we ask that packages authors wishing to submit first do via opening a pre-submission enquiry issue at [ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review](https://github.com/ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review). Anyone wishing to submit is also welcome to directly contact the statistical software team (Mark Padgham, mark<at>ropensci.org, and Noam Ross, ross<at>ecohealthalliance.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full details of procedures for preparing and submitting statistical packages for peer review are containing in our ["*Statistical Software Peer Review*" book](https://stats-devguide.ropensci.org/index.html). The system is currently in an initial trial phase, during which we ask that packages authors wishing to submit first do via opening a pre-submission enquiry issue at [ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review](https://github.com/ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review). Anyone wishing to submit is also welcome to directly contact the statistical software team (Mark Padgham, mark<at>ropensci.org, and Noam Ross, ross<at>ecohealthalliance.org).
```

Reviewer: Why did I create a subdomain for :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:
